---
album_id: null
channel: phys_math_dev
date: '2026-02-08T11:27:57+00:00'
deleted: false
edited_at: '2026-02-12T13:58:28+00:00'
id: 134
media:
- fileName: message_134.jpg
  height: 747
  kind: photo
  mimeType: image/jpeg
  size: 76472
  url: https://pub-a7ff9bad50cb495a81dbfd7f4a265bcf.r2.dev/telegram/phys_math_dev/62eedc2418369d0204d23c0ef6ca0ec47abe8d4b809a1347d2fd225f3772d985.jpg
  width: 1024
reactions: []
slug: from-uplift-to-logit
source_hash: 0245b322c1cbe1748cfb4ab16fa2e7f8623b8d82ce926e7f885d7faef459cbcf
source_url: https://t.me/phys_math_dev/134
summary: 'From uplift to logit Where we are In the previous [post](<https://t.me/phys_math_dev/126>)
  we started to build a bridge from uplift to a score, which lets us solve binary
  classification problem. What we achieved: ⚗️ calc'
title: From uplift to logit
updated_at: '2026-03-01T18:11:06.998032+00:00'
---

From uplift to logit

Where we are
In the previous [post](<https://t.me/phys_math_dev/126>) we started to build a bridge from uplift to a score, which lets us solve binary classification problem. What we achieved:
⚗️ calculated probabilities for all combinations of binary feature f and target L
⚗️ wrote a score expression for S as logarithm of conditional probabilities fraction

Notation
⚗️ L - a binary target, 0 or 1 values (l in picture)
⚗️ r - a binary feature, 0 or 1 values
⚗️ α = P(L=1) - probability of target to be 1 or average value of target
⚗️ ϐ = P(f=1) - coverage, probability of feature to be equal 1, or average value of feature
⚗️ γ = P(L=1|f=1)/P(l=1) - uplift, gain in target we have when selected subset with f = 1
⚗️ S - score for ideal model to predict target

Problem statement
For given α, ϐ, γ:
🦐 create a dataset with non-stationary uplift γ
🦐 create baseline S for target prediction

Increment
For me these conditional probabilities are terra incognita. I don't have solid intuition, what is right and what is wrong. So, I was wanted a small sanity check for all this complex for me math. And test is quite simple: γ=1 means that factor doesn't give new information about target. In this case weights for this factor should become 0. In the previous attempt it wasn't obvious at all.

This time I slightly changed notation and used conditional probabilities instead of absolute one. And it is totally obvious now that when γ=1, expressions under logarithms become 1, logarithms are equal to 0 and therefore, expressions with N and M (number of ones and zeroes in sets of factors) goes away. It means that factors are not important, exactly what we assumed taking γ=1. Now I'm quite confident in this result, so let's dive deeper.

Outcomes
🦐 we have watertight expressions for dataset generation for arbitrary γ
🦐 there is an expression for the optimal model S
🦐 case γ=1 checked and S behave as it expected
🦐 expression for S is a bridge from probabilities to logistic regression model
🦐 it’s a universal approach — we can try it in the wild